Gaudi Text-Generation Pipeline Blog (#1734)
huggingface/blog: textgen-pipe-gaudi.md

```python
import argparse
import logging

from pipeline import GaudiTextGenerationPipeline
from run_generation import setup_parser

# Define a logger
logging.basicConfig(
    format="%(asctime)s - %(levelname)s - %(name)s - %(message)s",
    datefmt="%m/%d/%Y %H:%M:%S",
    level=logging.INFO,
)
logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

# Set up an argument parser
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
args = setup_parser(parser)

# Define some pipeline arguments. Note that --model_name_or_path is a required argument for this script
args.num_return_sequences = 1
args.model_name_or_path = "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf"
args.max_new_tokens = 100
args.use_hpu_graphs = True
args.use_kv_cache = True
args.do_sample = True

# Initialize the pipeline
pipe = GaudiTextGenerationPipeline(args, logger)

# You can provide input prompts as strings
prompts = ["He is working on", "Once upon a time", "Far far away"]

# Generate text with pipeline
for prompt in prompts:
    print(f"Prompt: {prompt}")
    output = pipe(prompt)
    print(f"Generated Text: {repr(output)}")
```

> Note: You will have to run the above script with `python <name_of_script>.py --model_name_or_path gpt2` as `--model_name_or_path` is a required argument. However, the model name can be programatically changed as shown in the python snippet.

Reviewer: Good catch! Maybe we can make the `model_name_or_path` arg not required removing the line [here](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana/blob/e43a21ac0cd39a5c48af17e8ba91ab534e3dd9ba/examples/text-generation/run_generation.py#L50), WDYT?

Author: We can make this arg not required and possibly set a small model (maybe gpt2) as the default value.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me. I'll open a PR today and I'll let you know here when it is merged.

Author: Done

---
title: "Text-Generation Pipeline on Habana Gaudi2 Accelerator" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/textgen-pipe-gaudi/thumbnail.png
authors:

> - user: siddjags

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- user: siddjags
  guest: true
```

Author: Done

---

# Text-Generation Pipeline on Habana Gaudi2 Accelerator

> With the Generative AI (GenAI) revolution in full swing, text-generation with open-source transformer models like Llama-2 has become the talk of the town. AI enthusiasts as well as developers are looking to leverage the generative abilities of such models for their own use cases and applications. This article will demonstrate how easy it is to generate text with the Llama-2 family of models (7b, 13b and 70b) using Optimum Habana and a custom pipeline class. You will then be able to generate text with only a few lines of code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the Generative AI (GenAI) revolution in full swing, text-generation with open-source transformer models like Llama 2 has become the talk of the town. AI enthusiasts as well as developers are looking to leverage the generative abilities of such models for their own use cases and applications. This article shows how easy it is to generate text with the Llama 2 family of models (7b, 13b and 70b) using Optimum Habana and a custom pipeline class – you'll be able to run the models with just a few lines of code!
```

I think the [official family name is "Llama 2"](https://llama.meta.com/llama2)

Author: Done

## Prerequisites

> Since the Llama-2 models are part of a gated repo, you need to request access [here](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf). Make sure that the email address you provide is the same as your Hugging Face account. After you are granted access, login to your Hugging Face account by running the following command (you will require an access token).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the Llama 2 models are part of a gated repo, you need to request access if you haven't done it already. First, you have to visit the [Meta website](https://ai.meta.com/resources/models-and-libraries/llama-downloads) and accept the terms and conditions. After you are granted access by Meta (it can take a day or two), you have to request access [in Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf), using the same email address you provided in the Meta form.

After you are granted access, please login to your Hugging Face account by running the following command (you will need an access token, which you can get from [your user profile page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens)):
```

Unfortunately, the access process is a bit convoluted.

Author: Done

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

You also need to install the latest version of Optimum Habana and clone the repo to access the pipeline script. Here are the commands to do so:

```bash
pip install --upgrade-strategy eager optimum[habana]
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana.git
```

> In case you are planning to run distributed inference, install DeepSpeed depending on SynapseAI version. In this case, I am using SynapseAI 1.14.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case you are planning to run distributed inference, install DeepSpeed depending on your SynapseAI version. In this case, I am using SynapseAI 1.14.0.
```

Author: Done

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/HabanaAI/DeepSpeed.git@1.14.0
```

Now you are all set to perform text-generation with the pipeline!

> ## Using the Pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using the Pipeline

```

> Run the following command to access the pipeline scripts and follow the instructions provided in the README to update your `PYTHONPATH`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, go to the following directory in your `optimum-habana` checkout where the pipeline scripts are located, and follow the instructions in the `README` to update your `PYTHONPATH`.
```

Author: Done

```bash
cd optimum-habana/examples/text-generation/text-generation-pipeline
```

If you wish to generate a sequence of text from a prompt of your choice, here is a sample command.

```bash
python run_pipeline.py  --model_name_or_path meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --use_hpu_graphs --use_kv_cache --max_new_tokens 100 --do_sample --prompt "Here is my prompt"
```

> You can also pass multiple prompts as input and change the temperature and top_p values for generation as follows.

Reviewer 2: Are they batched? Do we observe performance benefits if so?

Author: Unfortunately, the pipeline does not support batching.

```bash
python run_pipeline.py --model_name_or_path meta-llama/Llama-2-13b-hf --use_hpu_graphs --use_kv_cache --max_new_tokens 100 --do_sample --temperature 0.5 --top_p 0.95 --prompt "Hello world" "How are you?"
```

For generating text with large models such as Llama-2-70b, here is a sample command to launch the pipeline with DeepSpeed.

```bash
python ../../gaudi_spawn.py --use_deepspeed --world_size 8 run_pipeline.py --model_name_or_path meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-hf --max_new_tokens 100 --bf16 --use_hpu_graphs --use_kv_cache --do_sample --temperature 0.5 --top_p 0.95 --prompt "Hello world" "How are you?" "Here is my prompt" "Once upon a time"
```

> Last but not the least, you can use the pipeline class in your own scripts as shown in the example below. Run the following sample script from `optimum-habana/examples/text-generation/text-generation-pipeline`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a subsection for Python use?

Author: I added a new subsection 'Usage in Python Scripts'.

```python
import argparse
import logging

from pipeline import GaudiTextGenerationPipeline
from run_generation import setup_parser

# Define a logger
logging.basicConfig(
    format="%(asctime)s - %(levelname)s - %(name)s - %(message)s",
    datefmt="%m/%d/%Y %H:%M:%S",
    level=logging.INFO,
)
logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

# Set up an argument parser
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
args = setup_parser(parser)

# Define some pipeline arguments. Note that --model_name_or_path is a required argument for this script
args.num_return_sequences = 1
args.model_name_or_path = "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf"
args.max_new_tokens = 100
args.use_hpu_graphs = True
args.use_kv_cache = True
args.do_sample = True

# Initialize the pipeline
pipe = GaudiTextGenerationPipeline(args, logger)

# You can provide input prompts as strings
prompts = ["He is working on", "Once upon a time", "Far far away"]

# Generate text with pipeline
for prompt in prompts:
    print(f"Prompt: {prompt}")
    output = pipe(prompt)
    print(f"Generated Text: {repr(output)}")
```

> Note: You will have to run the above script with `python <name_of_script>.py --model_name_or_path gpt2` as `--model_name_or_path` is a required argument. However, the model name can be programatically changed as shown in the python snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You will have to run the above script with `python <name_of_script>.py --model_name_or_path a_model_name` as `--model_name_or_path` is a required argument. However, the model name can be programatically changed as shown in the python snippet.
```

Author: Done

# Create LangChain object
llm = HuggingFacePipeline(pipeline=pipe)

template = """Use the following pieces of context to answer the question at the end. If you don't know the answer,\
just say that you don't know, don't try to make up an answer.

Context: Large Language Models (LLMs) are the latest models used in NLP.
Their superior performance over smaller models has made them incredibly
useful for developers building NLP enabled applications. These models
can be accessed via Hugging Face's `transformers` library, via OpenAI
using the `openai` library, and via Cohere using the `cohere` library.

Question: {question}
Answer: """

prompt = PromptTemplate(input_variables=["question"], template=template)
llm_chain = LLMChain(prompt=prompt, llm=llm)

# Use LangChain object
question = "Which libraries and model providers offer LLMs?"
response = llm_chain(prompt.format(question=question))
print(f"Question 1: {question}")
print(f"Response 1: {response['text']}")

question = "What is the provided context about?"
response = llm_chain(prompt.format(question=question))
print(f"\nQuestion 2: {question}")
print(f"Response 2: {response['text']}")
```

> Note: The pipeline class has been validated for LangChain version 0.0.191 and may not work with other versions of the package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The pipeline class has been validated for LangChain version 0.0.191 and may not work with other versions of the package. 
```

Author: Done

## Conclusion

> In this blog, we presented a custom text-generation pipeline that accepts single as well as multiple prompts as input. This pipeline offers great flexibility in terms of model size as well as parameters affecting text-generation quality. Furthermore, it can also be used with LangChain classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog, we presented a custom text-generation pipeline that accepts single as well as multiple prompts as input. This pipeline offers great flexibility in terms of model size as well as parameters affecting text-generation quality. Furthermore, it is also very easy to use and to plug into your scripts and is compatible with LangChain.
```

Author: Done

> In this blog, we presented a custom text-generation pipeline that accepts single as well as multiple prompts as input. This pipeline offers great flexibility in terms of model size as well as parameters affecting text-generation quality. Furthermore, it is also very easy to use and to plug into your scripts and is compatible with LangChain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We presented a custom text-generation pipeline on Habana Gaudi2 that accepts single or multiple prompts as input. This pipeline offers great flexibility in terms of model size as well as parameters affecting text-generation quality. Furthermore, it is also very easy to use and to plug into your scripts, and is compatible with LangChain.
```

Author: Done

## Prerequisites
Since the Llama 2 models are part of a gated repo, you need to request access if you haven't done it already. First, you have to visit the [Meta website](https://ai.meta.com/resources/models-and-libraries/llama-downloads) and accept the terms and conditions. After you are granted access by Meta (it can take a day or two), you have to request access [in Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf), using the same email address you provided in the Meta form.

After you are granted access, please login to your Hugging Face account by running the following command (you will need an access token, which you can get from [your user profile page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens)):

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

You also need to install the latest version of Optimum Habana and clone the repo to access the pipeline script. Here are the commands to do so:

```bash

> pip install optimum-habana==1.10.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip install optimum-habana==1.10.4
```

Author: Done

> git clone https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana.git

Reviewer: @sjagtap1803  Following Greg Serochi's email, let's replace these instructions by the following:
```
pip install optimum-habana==1.10.0
git clone -b v1.10-release https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana.git
```

Author: This change has been made.

> Use of the pretrained model is subject to compliance with third party licenses, including the “Llama 2 Community License Agreement” (LLAMAV2). For guidance on the intended use of the LLAMA2 model, what will be considered misuse and out-of-scope uses, who are the intended users and additional terms please review and read the instructions in this link [https://ai.meta.com/llama/license/](https://ai.meta.com/llama/license/). Users bear sole liability and responsibility to follow and comply with any third party licenses, and Habana Labs disclaims and will bear no liability with respect to users’ use or compliance with third party licenses.
To be able to run gated models like this Llama-2-70b-hf, you need the following:
> * Have a HuggingFace account
> * Agree to the terms of use of the model in its model card on the HF Hub
> * set a read token

> > * Login to your account using the HF CLI: run huggingface-cli login before launching your script

Reviewer: Redundant with line 15 IMO. Let's keep it if that matters for Intel, otherwise we can remove it.

---
title: "Text-Generation Pipeline on Habana Gaudi2 Accelerator" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/textgen-pipe-gaudi/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: siddjags
---

# Text-Generation Pipeline on Habana Gaudi2 Accelerator

> With the GenAI revolution in full swing, text-generation with open-source transformer models like Llama-2 has become the talk of the town. AI enthusiasts as well as developers are looking to leverage the generative abilities of such models for their own use cases and applications. This article will demonstrate how easy it is to generate text with the Llama-2 family of models (7b, 13b and 70b) using Optimum Habana and a custom pipeline class. You will then be able to generate text with only a few lines of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Generative AI (GenAI) revolution in full swing, text-generation with open-source transformer models like Llama-2 has become the talk of the town. AI enthusiasts as well as developers are looking to leverage the generative abilities of such models for their own use cases and applications. This article will demonstrate how easy it is to generate text with the Llama-2 family of models (7b, 13b and 70b) using Optimum Habana and a custom pipeline class. You will then be able to generate text with only a few lines of code.
```

Author: Done

## Prerequisites

> Since the Llama-2 models are part of a gated repo, you need to request access [here](https://ai.meta.com/resources/models-and-libraries/llama-downloads/). Make sure that the email address you provide is the same as your Hugging Face account. After you are granted access, login to your Hugging Face account by running the following command (You will require an access token).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Llama-2 models are part of a gated repo, you need to request access [here](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf). Make sure that the email address you provide is the same as your Hugging Face account. After you are granted access, login to your Hugging Face account by running the following command (you will require an access token).
```
Users will be redirected to the Meta form from the hub, so let's give the hub link.

Author: Done
